Summary

	This article argues that ecological niches function above the species level and thus by proxy niche conservatism must also function at a higher degree.  By estimating the change in range size and rank in North America during the Late Pleistocene and Late Holocene periods the author found that niche conservatism range size at the genus and family levels were constant.  This largely suggests that niche conservatism may be different at various taxonomic levels, which may be accounted for by underlying controls that affect genus and family levels to different degrees.  At higher levels, niche conservatism appears to be controlled by intrinsic life history traits (i.e. genetics) while at the species level is may be affects by environmental controls. Thus, species must also be protected at the genus level to ensure that the species pool continues to remain diverse. 

Tables/Figures

	The tables and figures highlight the main findings of the article, largely by visually representing the changes in geographic range size from the Late Pleistocene to the Late Holocene period in North America.  Figure 2 depicts changes in range sizes and figure 4 represents differences in the number of species within a genus, showing that extinction does not always influence changes in geographic range rank between time intervals. 

Likes

	Overall, I found the article to be very effective; the author recognized the limitations of their study and also highlighted different areas for future research.  I particularly liked the author’s closing statements where they addressed current as well as future issues, emphasizing that their study does not account for recent changes in geographic range due to human impacts.  Thus, this data can serve as a means for comparison in evaluating the severity of our current rates of change, from habitat loss and degradation to extinction, with those of the recent past.  This could potentially allow us to determine a trajectory for future change and therefore better focus our conservation efforts to combat the negative effects of climate change (as well as other environmental factors) at the genus level.

Dislikes

	The author mentions that there may be biases in raw range size measurements between taxa through time due to variables such as differences in preservation of environments and abundance of fossil localities but does not completely describe how they accounted for these factors in their data.  The fossil record is not comprehensive, meaning that the fossils we have now are not entirely representative of the flora and fauna that existed in the past.  In other words, it is highly possible that, even in the case of megafauna, fossils simply have not been excavated from areas in which a species resided, which may potentially skew range sizes.
	Also, the sampled time points may not be representative of the populations. 
